So what I was explaining to you as far as
a bow goes is if you look at this drywall
right now we are probably pretty much sitting
straight, right? You look down the line but
if I were to screw this in right now, now
we have got a bow going in right here. Because
this stud is farther back than these so what
we are going to do to remedy that is we are
going to get a piece of shim, redwood lathe
that is the same size as the gap and we're
going to nail that in. That looks straight
there, straight here. Now we are about to
discuss shimming and furring out your wall
so your drywall lays flat. We've got two types
of different shims here but you can also make
your own. We have, this is a redwood lathe
shim and they sell them at Home Depot and
they also sell the paper shims. The redwood
shims are 1/4 inch thick around while these
are around 1/8 of an inch thick. You can also
make your own for seriously out of plumb walls
that are seriously tipped sideways you can
cut 2 X 4's from nothing to whatever size
you need to straighten up that wall but this
wall we are pretty much dealing with just
a bunch of junky old 2 X 4s and so we are
using strips and lathing to fur it out to
make it straight. The purpose of these shims
and the redwood lathing that we are using
is to actually fill in the space in between
studs or on the stud. Some studs are sticking
out farther than others and when you put a
piece of drywall on it the piece of drywall
will hit the studs that are sticking out the
farthest. Now the ones that are set back in
they pose a problem because when you screw
the drywall in it will push the drywall in
to that stud which will leave you a big bow
in it and for anybody that does taping and
mudding you know how hard it is to fill in
a hole like that so the best way to do it
is when you have studs that are in use the
paper shimming and the redwood lathe and you
fur the 2 X 4's that are set in out to meet
the edge of the drywall so the drywall will
stay flat and that's what these are for. See
how it is bent in a little bit, well you've
got to take that out. Put a shim behind it.
See now it is straight. That's pretty much
shimming and lathing.